<h1>
<center>
   <b>Why use a superfluous phrase like “n-dimensional consequences?”</b>
</center>
</h1>

\
At the risk of coming off a bit silly, I feel the phrase accurately captures the unseen, unexpected, and underappreciated effects this technology - ever expanding in form and function - has on us both as individuals and as a people. The information war will continue to come at us sideways, and it would be useful to normalize language which captures this essence. We owe it to ourselves to instill a lens that removes the possibility of euphemistically abstracting away the impact of a system which terraforms our perception and has demonstrated the ability to disrupt our functioning as a species. In the present future, what was absurd but a moment ago becomes antiquated methodology long before it’s an accepted conclusion. 

> “Just over the horizon is an internet experience where one will have no idea if the entity they are speaking with, even on video chat, is biological. The voice that talks back may be informed by the insights gleaned from millions of other conversations with individuals possessing similar personality profiles. The faces looking back at you may be generated by mining your browsing history, designed to elicit behavioral responses desired by their creator. Armed with the knowledge of an internet’s worth of information, ever expanding in form and function, computational propaganda has the potential to understand and educate individuals, with a persuasive capability that is currently outside the abilities of academia to measure. As society gently kicks a rock over the capability ledge, and into the canyon of synthetic media; it should have an offline conversation about the reality of computational propaganda in the age of mass interpersonal persuasion.” Dec. 13 2019

\
No longer do we read newspapers, listen to the radio, and watch the news to hitch a ride on the communications vehicle by which systems of sales goals seek to communicate the symbology and narration required to germinate a culture amenable to the interests of their clients because we are all stars now, in the dope show. We are influenced by the influencer who is racing to piggyback off whatever is trending thus trapping themselves, and by extension us, in the lowest common denomination of our expectations - further priming us towards ever simpler explanations of the world as the challenges we face simultaneously grow in complexity.

\
Each of us is a training set within a training set for a system that by design can find the hidden connections between small details of our behavior and experiences, enabling currently operational simulation and influence capabilities too frightening to say in front of polite company. Our grandchildren will be born into a world where their individual assistant will have decades of data on our development over time, along with the billions of others sharing similar profiles. 

\
If you can appreciate that intelligence is not a protective factor and by extension there is no privileged frame of reference when accounting for time, then hopefully you can come to the realization that knowledge of the master narrative is not a defense mechanism. When you cast a spell upon the masses, you too are affected. In this way, we are all in this together. 

\
So when I say n-dimensional, it isnt to sound cool. I use the word because ever evolving planes of capability shifting in relation to advancements of technology resulting from social norms selecting for the investment of modern and future communications capability is unknown territory in the human experience. We are only a few years into this technology being a socially accepted concept and in a few more we may no longer notice.

# [<-](index.md)